doc/reference.md, before:

# Pandoc/PDF reference

## Toolbar buttons

The toolbar contains the following buttons, from left to right:

__Process with Pandoc into PDF:__ Triggers reprocessing with Pandoc. Processing occurs in the background, and Pandoc's log messages are shown in the "Log Messages" dialog.

__Toggle Pandoc Log Messages:__ Toggles an overlay dialog with Pandoc's log messages. The button icon is animated during processing, and changes color if warning or error messages are found. If Pandoc stops with an error, the dialog opens automatically. The dialog also shows the exact command line arguments with which Pandoc was called.

__Save Generated PDF:__ The PDF is generated in and shown from a temporary directory, along with other files created by Pandoc. This button allows to save the PDF to a user-chosen directory.

__Open Source Defaults File in Atom:__ Recent version of Pandoc allow command line options to be configured in a YAML file, a [defaults file](https://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html#default-files). This button allows to create such a file in the document's directory, with the same name but the extension `yaml`. If present, Pandoc/PDF passes it to Pandoc.

__Show Intermediate Files Generated by Pandoc:__ Opens the system file browser with the temporary directory Pandoc/PDF uses for Pandoc.

__Show Pandoc/PDF Settings:__ Open's the Pandoc/PDF package settings dialog.

__Show Help:__ Shows short reference information on how to use Pandoc.


## Input formats

The text-based input formats which Pandoc recognizes based on the file extension:


| reader              | format                       | file extension(s)               |
|---------------------|------------------------------|---------------------------------|
| `docbook`           | DocBook                      | `db`                            |
| `dokuwiki`          | DokuWiki markup              | `dokuwiki`                      |
| `fb2`               | FictionBook2 e-book          | `fb2`                           |
| `html`              | HTML                         | `htm`, `html`, `xhtml`          |
| `ipynb`             | Jupyter notebook             | `ipynb`                         |
| `json`              | JSON version of native AST   | `json`                          |
| `latex`             | LaTeX                        | `latex`, `ltx`, `tex`           |
| `markdown`          | Pandoc's Markdown            | `markdown`, `md`, `text`, `txt` |
| `markdown+lhs`      | Literate Haskell             | `lhs`                           |
| `mediawiki`         | MediaWiki markup             | `wiki`                          |
| `man`               | roff man                     | `1` – `9`                       |
| `muse`              | Muse                         | `muse`                          |
| `native`            | native Haskell               | `native`                        |
| `opml`              | OPML                         | `opml`                          |
| `org`               | Emacs Org mode               | `org`                           |
| `rst`               | reStructuredText             | `rst`                           |
| `t2t`               | txt2tags                     | `t2t`                           |
| `textile`           | Textile                      | `textile`                       |


## Defaults files

Pandoc supports defaults files from version 2.8. A defaults file is in YAML format, and its fields correspond to command line options. A `--defaults` command line option is treated as if the contained options were given in its place on the command line. Note that if an option is specified multiple times, options given later on the command line override those given earlier, except for repeatable options (`--metadata-file`, `--css`, `--include-in-header`, `--include-before-body`, `--include-after-body`, `--variable`, `--metadata`, `--syntax-definition`), where values are combined.   

The command line options likely to be relevant for use with PP, and their translation into defaults file fields are:

| command line                                  | defaults file                                    |
|-----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| `--read=`FORMAT[EXTENSIONS]                   | `reader:` FORMAT[EXTENSIONS]                     |
| `--write=`FORMAT[EXTENSIONS]                  | `writer:` FORMAT[EXTENSIONS]                     |
| `--data-dir=`DIRECTORY                        | `data-dir:` DIRECTORY                            |
| `--metadata-file=`FILE                        | `metadata-files:`                                |
|                                               | `  - `FILE                                       |
| `--template=`FILE                             | `template:` FILE                                 |
| `--variable=`KEY[:VALUE]                      | `variables:`                                     |
|                                               | `  `KEY`:` VALUE\|`true`                         |
| `--toc`                                       | `toc: true`                                      |
| `--toc-depth=`NUMBER                          | `toc-depth:` NUMBER                              |
| `--number-sections`                           | `number-sections: true`                          |
| `--number-offset=`NUMBERS                     | `number-offset:` NUMBERS (as list)               |
| `--top-level-division=`section\|chapter\|part | `top-level-division: section`\|`chapter`\|`part` |
| `--resource-path=`SEARCHPATH                  | `resource-path:` SEARCHPATH (as list)            |
| `--include-in-header=`FILE                    | `include-in-header:` FILEs (as list)             |
| `--include-before-body=`FILE                  | `include-before-body:` FILEs (as list)           |
| `--include-after-body=`FILE                   | `include-after-body:` FILEs (as list)            |
| `--no-highlight`                              | ?                                                |
| `--highlight-style=`STYLE\|FILE               | `highlight-style:` STYLE\|FILE                   |
| `--syntax-definition=`FILE                    | `syntax-definitions:`                            |
|                                               | `  - `FILE                                       |
| `--dpi=`NUMBER                                | `dpi:` NUMBER                                    |
| `--abbreviations=`FILE                        | `abbreviations:` FILE                            |
| `--indented-code-classes=`STRING              | `indented-code-classes:` STRINGs (as list)       |
| `--default-image-extension=`EXTENSION         | `default-image-extension:` EXTENSION             |
| `--filter=`PROGRAM                            | `filters:`                                       |
|                                               | `  - `PROGRAM                                    |
| `--lua-filter=`SCRIPTPATH                     | `filters:`                                       |
|                                               | `  - `SCRIPTPATH                                 |
| `--shift-heading-level-by=`NUMBER             | `shift-heading-level-by:` NUMBER                 |
| `--listings`                                  | `listings: true`                                 |
| `--incremental`                               | `incremental: true`                              |
| `--slide-level=`NUMBER                        | `slide-level:` NUMBER                            |
| `--html-q-tags`                               | `html-q-tags: true`                              |
| `--title-prefix=`STRING                       | `title-prefix:` STRING                           |
| `--css=`URL                                   | `css:`                                           |
|                                               | `  - `URL                                        |
| `--natbib`                                    | `cite-method: natbib`                            |
| `--biblatex`                                  | `cite-method: biblatex`                          |
| `--mathml`                                    | `html-math-method:`                              |
|                                               | `  method: mathml`                               |
| `--webtex`[`=`URL]                            | `html-math-method:`                              |
|                                               | `  method: webtex`                               |
|                                               | `  `[`url:` URL]                                 |
| `--mathjax`[`=`URL]                           | `html-math-method:`                              |
|                                               | `  method: mathjax`                              |
|                                               | `  `[`url:` URL]                                 |
| `--katex`[`=`URL]                             | `html-math-method:`                              |
|                                               | `  method: katex`                                |
|                                               | `  `[`url:` URL]                                 |
| `--gladtex`[`=`URL]                           | `html-math-method:`                              |
|                                               | `  method: gladtex`                              |
|                                               | `  `[`url:` URL]                                 |
| `--metadata=`KEY[:VALUE]                      | `metadata:`                                      |
|                                               | `  `KEY`:` VALUE\|`true`                         |
| `--bibliography=`FILE                         | `metadata:`                                      |
|                                               | `  bibliography:` FILE                           |
| `--csl=`FILE                                  | `metadata:`                                      |
|                                               | `  csl:` FILE                                    |
| `--citation-abbreviations=`FILE               | `metadata:`                                      |
|                                               | `  citation-abbreviations:` FILE                 |

If possible, the last four options are better implemented as entries in the source files' YAML metadata block.

Commit message:

Revised toolbar icons & descriptions, extended documentation

doc/reference.md, after:

---
title: Pandoc/PDF reference
...

TODO:

-   template variables for latex/beamer/html/ms

-   defaults file settings

-   Pandoc's Markdown

-   more compact format

-   explain package settings


# Input formats

The text-based input formats which Pandoc recognizes based on the file extension are:


| reader              | format                       | file extension(s)               |
|---------------------|------------------------------|---------------------------------|
| `docbook`           | DocBook                      | `db`                            |
| `dokuwiki`          | DokuWiki markup              | `dokuwiki`                      |
| `fb2`               | FictionBook2 e-book          | `fb2`                           |
| `html`              | HTML                         | `htm`, `html`, `xhtml`          |
| `ipynb`             | Jupyter notebook             | `ipynb`                         |
| `json`              | JSON version of native AST   | `json`                          |
| `latex`             | LaTeX                        | `latex`, `ltx`, `tex`           |
| `markdown`          | Pandoc's Markdown            | `markdown`, `md`, `text`, `txt` |
| `markdown+lhs`      | Literate Haskell             | `lhs`                           |
| `mediawiki`         | MediaWiki markup             | `wiki`                          |
| `man`               | roff man                     | `1` – `9`                       |
| `muse`              | Muse                         | `muse`                          |
| `native`            | native Haskell               | `native`                        |
| `opml`              | OPML                         | `opml`                          |
| `org`               | Emacs Org mode               | `org`                           |
| `rst`               | reStructuredText             | `rst`                           |
| `t2t`               | txt2tags                     | `t2t`                           |
| `textile`           | Textile                      | `textile`                       |


# Defaults files

Pandoc supports defaults files from version 2.8. A defaults file is in YAML format, and its fields correspond to command line options. A `--defaults` command line option is treated as if the contained options were given in its place on the command line. Note that if an option is specified multiple times, options given later on the command line override those given earlier, except for repeatable options (`--metadata-file`, `--css`, `--include-in-header`, `--include-before-body`, `--include-after-body`, `--variable`, `--metadata`, `--syntax-definition`), where values are combined.   

The command line options likely to be relevant for use with PP, and their translation into defaults file fields are:

| command line                                  | defaults file                                    |
|-----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------|
| `--read=`FORMAT[EXTENSIONS]                   | `reader:` FORMAT[EXTENSIONS]                     |
| `--write=`FORMAT[EXTENSIONS]                  | `writer:` FORMAT[EXTENSIONS]                     |
| `--data-dir=`DIRECTORY                        | `data-dir:` DIRECTORY                            |
| `--metadata-file=`FILE                        | `metadata-files:`                                |
|                                               | `  - `FILE                                       |
| `--template=`FILE                             | `template:` FILE                                 |
| `--variable=`KEY[:VALUE]                      | `variables:`                                     |
|                                               | `  `KEY`:` VALUE\|`true`                         |
| `--toc`                                       | `toc: true`                                      |
| `--toc-depth=`NUMBER                          | `toc-depth:` NUMBER                              |
| `--number-sections`                           | `number-sections: true`                          |
| `--number-offset=`NUMBERS                     | `number-offset:` NUMBERS (as list)               |
| `--top-level-division=`section\|chapter\|part | `top-level-division: section`\|`chapter`\|`part` |
| `--resource-path=`SEARCHPATH                  | `resource-path:` SEARCHPATH (as list)            |
| `--include-in-header=`FILE                    | `include-in-header:` FILEs (as list)             |
| `--include-before-body=`FILE                  | `include-before-body:` FILEs (as list)           |
| `--include-after-body=`FILE                   | `include-after-body:` FILEs (as list)            |
| `--no-highlight`                              | ?                                                |
| `--highlight-style=`STYLE\|FILE               | `highlight-style:` STYLE\|FILE                   |
| `--syntax-definition=`FILE                    | `syntax-definitions:`                            |
|                                               | `  - `FILE                                       |
| `--dpi=`NUMBER                                | `dpi:` NUMBER                                    |
| `--abbreviations=`FILE                        | `abbreviations:` FILE                            |
| `--indented-code-classes=`STRING              | `indented-code-classes:` STRINGs (as list)       |
| `--default-image-extension=`EXTENSION         | `default-image-extension:` EXTENSION             |
| `--filter=`PROGRAM                            | `filters:`                                       |
|                                               | `  - `PROGRAM                                    |
| `--lua-filter=`SCRIPTPATH                     | `filters:`                                       |
|                                               | `  - `SCRIPTPATH                                 |
| `--shift-heading-level-by=`NUMBER             | `shift-heading-level-by:` NUMBER                 |
| `--listings`                                  | `listings: true`                                 |
| `--incremental`                               | `incremental: true`                              |
| `--slide-level=`NUMBER                        | `slide-level:` NUMBER                            |
| `--html-q-tags`                               | `html-q-tags: true`                              |
| `--title-prefix=`STRING                       | `title-prefix:` STRING                           |
| `--css=`URL                                   | `css:`                                           |
|                                               | `  - `URL                                        |
| `--natbib`                                    | `cite-method: natbib`                            |
| `--biblatex`                                  | `cite-method: biblatex`                          |
| `--mathml`                                    | `html-math-method:`                              |
|                                               | `  method: mathml`                               |
| `--webtex`[`=`URL]                            | `html-math-method:`                              |
|                                               | `  method: webtex`                               |
|                                               | `  `[`url:` URL]                                 |
| `--mathjax`[`=`URL]                           | `html-math-method:`                              |
|                                               | `  method: mathjax`                              |
|                                               | `  `[`url:` URL]                                 |
| `--katex`[`=`URL]                             | `html-math-method:`                              |
|                                               | `  method: katex`                                |
|                                               | `  `[`url:` URL]                                 |
| `--gladtex`[`=`URL]                           | `html-math-method:`                              |
|                                               | `  method: gladtex`                              |
|                                               | `  `[`url:` URL]                                 |
| `--metadata=`KEY[:VALUE]                      | `metadata:`                                      |
|                                               | `  `KEY`:` VALUE\|`true`                         |
| `--bibliography=`FILE                         | `metadata:`                                      |
|                                               | `  bibliography:` FILE                           |
| `--csl=`FILE                                  | `metadata:`                                      |
|                                               | `  csl:` FILE                                    |
| `--citation-abbreviations=`FILE               | `metadata:`                                      |
|                                               | `  citation-abbreviations:` FILE                 |

If possible, the last four options are better implemented as entries in the source files' YAML metadata block.
